Init project quality (#2)
openfun/django-peertube-runner-connector: README.md

## Setup

### Configuration

#### Storage

### Server

To make use of the SocketIO server, you need to have ASGi server like [uvicorn](https://www.uvicorn.org/).

Here is an example on how to configure your asgi server to use the SocketIO server:

```python
from configurations.asgi import get_asgi_application

django_asgi_app = get_asgi_application()

# its important to make all other imports below this comment
import socketio 

from django_peertube_runner_connector.socket import sio 

application = socketio.ASGIApp(sio, django_asgi_app)

```

### Testing yourself

For testing purpose, you can find a basic django app using the django-peertube-runner-connector library in the `tests` directory. You use run it with the following commands:

Create your virtual environment:
```shell
python -m venv env
source env/bin/activate
```

Install the dependencies:
```shell
pip install -e ."[dev]"
```

Create the database and run the migrations:
```shell

> python manage.py migrate

Reviewer: ```suggestion
cd tests
python manage.py migrate
```

Here is an example on how to configure your asgi server to use the SocketIO server:

```python
from configurations.asgi import get_asgi_application

django_asgi_app = get_asgi_application()

# its important to make all other imports below this comment
import socketio 

from django_peertube_runner_connector.socket import sio 

application = socketio.ASGIApp(sio, django_asgi_app)

```

Add the runners api views to your urls:

```python
# urls.py
from django_peertube_runner_connector.urls import (
    urlpatterns as django_peertube_runner_connector_urls,
)

urlpatterns += django_peertube_runner_connector_urls
```

Voilà! Your server should be ready!

### Demo application

For testing purpose, you can find a basic django app using the django-peertube-runner-connector library in the `tests` directory. You use run it with the following commands:

Create your virtual environment:
```shell
python -m venv env
source env/bin/activate
```

Install the dependencies:
```shell
pip install -e ."[dev]"
```

Go to the tests directory:
```shell
cd tests
```

Create the database and run the migrations:
```shell
python manage.py migrate
```

> 

Reviewer: Collect the static files
```shell
python manage.py collectstatic
```

Create a superuser
```
python manage.py createsuperuser
```

Reviewer: Sorry @polyhb I messed up my comment.
It is intended to be added to the readme.

Launch the server with an asgi server like uvicorn:
```shell
python -m uvicorn app.asgi:application --reload

> ```

Reviewer: Admin should be accessible from [http://127.0.0.1:8000/admin/](http://127.0.0.1:8000/admin/)

Reviewer: ditto @polyhb

Once the server is running, you can register your server to a peertube runner. 

#### Registering a Peertube runner

> First you will to generate a registration token. To do so, launch the server and use the following command and keep the registrationToken for late:
> 
> ```shell
> curl -X POST http://127.0.0.1:8000/api/v1/runners/registration-tokens/generate
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First you will to generate a registration token. To do so, use the following command and keep the registrationToken for late:

```shell
python tests/manage.py create_runner_registration_token
```
```

First you will need a Peertube runner. To launch one, follow the instructions (theses instructions are made by me and for development purpose only)

Clone and go to the [peertube repository](https://github.com/Chocobozzz/PeerTube)
```shell
git clone https://github.com/Chocobozzz/PeerTube
```
```shell
cd PeerTube
```

Install the dependencies
```shell
cd ./packages/peertube-runner
npm install
cd ../../
```
Build the runner
```shell
npm run build:peertube-runner
```

Launch the runner
```shell

> ./packages/peertube-runner/dist/peertube-runner.js server

Reviewer: ```suggestion
./apps/peertube-runner/dist/peertube-runner.js server
```

```

Open a new terminal in the same directory and register your runner to your django app
```shell

> ./packages/peertube-runner/dist/peertube-runner.js register --url http://localhost:8000 --registration-token $MY_TOKEN --runner-name transcode-api

Reviewer: ```suggestion
./apps/peertube-runner/dist/peertube-runner.js register --url http://localhost:8000 --registration-token $MY_TOKEN --runner-name transcode-api
```

# django-peertube-runner-connector: A django application to connect to a peertube runner and transcode videos 

## Overview 
django-peertube-runner-connector is designed to use Peertube transcoding runners outside of Peertube App. It implements a set of endpoints and a SocketIO server that allow runners to request jobs, updated job status, download media files and upload the transcoded media files. It provides two endpoints that can be used by users to transcode a given video.

## Architecture

The API in itself is separated in three parts.

### Runner API

This part will interact with Peertube runners. It is not designed to be used by a user as it reproduces what the Peertube App is doing in order to manage runners / jobs.

#### Runner Behavior

Jobs are stored in a Database, and runners hit the `/request` endpoint to get the available jobs to transcode.

### Video API

> This API provides endpoints transcode a video. Both endpoints works in the same way: it receives a video file and a name, and then creates transcoding jobs for it. The difference between the two endpoints is that one takes a File and the other takes a path to a file.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This API provides endpoints to transcode a video. Both endpoints work in the same way: it receives a video file and a name, and then creates transcoding jobs for it. The difference between the two endpoints is that one takes a File and the other one takes a path to a file.
```

> We use function `probe` of python-ffmpeg library, to get a thumbnail and all the necessary metadata to creates transcoding jobs. Once the jobs are created, the WebSocket server emits an event to inform runners of a new pending jobs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We use function `probe` of python-ffmpeg library, to get a thumbnail and all the necessary metadata to create transcoding jobs. Once the jobs are created, the WebSocket server emits an event to inform runners of a new pending jobs.
```

The two endpoints available are: 

- `video/upload`: this endpoint takes a File and a name to transcode the given File

> - `video/transcode`: this endpoint takes path and a name. It will then verify if the given the given file can be found a the path (see Storage section to know the path) abd create transcoding jobs for it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `video/transcode`: this endpoint takes a path and a name. It will then verify if the given file can be found at the path (see Storage section to know the path) and create transcoding jobs for it.
```

I'm not sure to understand this sentence. This part: `if the given file can be found at the path`.

### Job implementation

> Currently we do not have use for every transcoding jobs the runner can do. We are planning to implements more jobs in the future. For now, the API only implements the following jobs:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Currently we didn't implement all the transcoding jobs the runner can do. We are planning to implement more jobs in the future. For now, the API only implements the following jobs:
```

- [x] HLS transcoding
- [ ] VOD web video transcoding
- [ ] Live transcoding
- [ ] VOD audio merge transcoding
- [ ] Video Studio transcoding

> Theses jobs are created and handled through theirs respective classes in `api.transcoding.utils.job_handlers` directory. Some of them are already been implemented commented but are not used / tested.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Theses jobs are created and handled through their respective classes in `api.transcoding.utils.job_handlers` directory. Some of them are already implemented commented but are not used / tested.
```

Is it implemented and commented ? implemented or commented ? Something is missing here to understand
